some , such as thomas of erfurt , agreed with the former greeks that the interjection was closely tied to the verb while others like siger of courtrai held that the interjection was its own part of speech syntactically , much like the latin scholars in contrast to typical words and sentences , the function of most interjections is related to an expression of feeling , rather than representing some idea or concept , ouch ! , huh ? ) , while secondary interjections are words from other categories that come to be used as interjections in virtue of their meaning ( examples : damn ! , hell ! ) primary interjections are generally considered to be single words ( oh ! , wow ! ) secondary interjections can consist of multi-word phrases , or interjectional phrases , ( examples : sup ! from what 's up ? , excuse me ! , oh dear ! , thank god ! ) , but can also include single-word alarm words ( help ! ) , swear and taboo words ( heavens ! ) , and other words used to show emotion ( drats ! ) for example , it is possible to utter an interjection like ouch ! or bloody hell ! on its own , whereas a different part of speech that may seem similar in function and length , such as the conjunction and , can not be uttered alone ( you ca n't just say and ! independently in english ) exclamations and curses are primarily about giving expression to private feelings or emotions , while response particles and hesitation markers are primarily directed at managing the flow of social interaction interjections can also be confused with adverbs when they appear following a form of the verb “ go ” ( as in '' he went 'ouch ! ' '' ) , which may seem to describe a manner of going ( compare : 'he went rapidly ' ) if it is understood that the subject of the utterance also utters the item ( as in '' ouch ! '' in the first example ) , then it can not be an adverb this differs from an interjection that is more of a strategic utterance within a speech act that brings attention to the utterance but may or may not also have an intended addressed ( directed at an individual or group ) under a different use of the term 'particle ' , particles and interjections can be distinctions in that particles can not be independent utterances and are fully a part of the syntax of the utterance volitive interjections such as '' ahem '' , '' psst ! '' , and '' shh ! '' could be considered imperative , as the speaker is requesting or demanding something from the listener for instance , the english interjections gee and wow have no direct equivalent in polish , and the closest equivalent for polish ' fu ' ( an interjection of disgust ) is the different sounding ' yuck ! ' for example : ahem , ( '' attention ! '' ) may contain a glottal stop or a in any dialect of english ; the glottal stop is common in american english , some british dialects , and in other languages , such as german ) ugh ( '' disgusting ! '' ) ends with a velar fricative consonant , which is otherwise restricted to just a few regional dialects of english , though is common in languages like spanish , german , gaelic and russian whew or phew , ( '' what a relief ! '' ) , also spelled shew , may start with a bilabial fricative , a sound pronounced with a strong puff of air through the lips 