dirk bogarde as stephen phyllis calvert as lady haig jean-pierre cassel as french colonel john clements as general von moltke john gielgud as count leopold berchtold jack hawkins as emperor franz josef i kenneth more as kaiser wilhelm ii laurence olivier as field marshal sir john french michael redgrave as sir henry wilson vanessa redgrave as sylvia pankhurst ralph richardson as sir edward grey maggie smith as music hall star susannah york as eleanor john mills as douglas haig , 1st earl haig a music hall star ( maggie smith ) then enters a lone spotlight , and lures the still doubtful young men in the audience into '' taking the king 's shilling '' by singing about how every day she '' walks out '' with different men in uniform , and that '' on saturday i 'm willing , if you 'll only take the shilling , to i 'll make a man of you '' kevin thomas of the los angeles times wrote : '' what noted british actor richard attenborough , in a dazzling directorial debut , and his principal writers len deighton and brian duffy have done is to transform the highly political and one-dimensional joan littlewood theatre piece into timeless—and painfully timely—tragic allegory the film 's locations included the west pier ( now gutted by fire and wrecked ) , ditchling beacon , sheepcote valley ( the trench sequences ) , old bayham abbey , near frant ( the church parade ) , brighton station and ovingdean ( where thousands of crosses were erected for the classic finale ) in a scene of british soldiers drinking in an estaminet , a chanteuse ( pia colombo ) leads them in a jolly chorus of '' the moon shines bright on charlie chaplin '' , a reworking of an american song then shifts the mood back to darker tone by singing a soft and sombre version of '' adieu la vie '' at a google talks event , james rado , one of the original writers and creators of hair , stated that oh ! what a lovely war was what made him want to work on a musical dealing with war oh ! what a lovely war summarises and comments on the events of world war i using popular songs of the time , many of which were parodies of older popular songs , and using allegorical settings such as brighton 's west pier to criticise the manner in which the eventual victory was won however , as many critics , including pauline kael , kael , pauline ( 1971 ) 'off with the statues ' heads ! ' in deeper into movies , calder boyars noted , the treatment diminished the effect of the numbers of deaths , which appear only fleetingly bbc radio 4 's 15 minute musical portrayed tony blair 's premiership in the style of oh ! what a lovely war in a september 2006 episode entitled '' oh ! what a lovely blair '' : as soon as reveille is gone : we feel just as heavy as lead , : but we never get up till the sergeant brings : our breakfast up to bed : oh ! oh ! oh ! it 's a lovely war , : what do we want with eggs and ham : when we 've got plum and apple jam ? : form fours ! right turn ! : how shall we spend the money we earn ? : oh ! oh ! oh ! it 's a lovely war wendy allnutt as flo smith colin farrell ( not the irish-born hollywood actor of the same name ) as harry smith malcolm mcfee as freddie smith john rae as grandpa smith corin redgrave as bertie smith maurice roëves as george smith paul shelley as jack smith kim smith as dickie smith angela thorne as betty smith mary wimbush as mary smith at the time , the beatles were interested in making an anti-war film the americans arrive , but are shown only in the '' disconnected reality '' of the pavilion , interrupting the deliberations of the british generals by singing '' over there '' with the changed final line : '' and we wo n't come back – we 'll be buried over there ! '' the resolute-looking american captain seizes the map from an astonished haig the 1969 film transferred the mise-en-scène completely into the cinematic domain , with elaborate sequences shot at west pier in brighton , elsewhere in brighton and on the south downs , interspersed with motifs from the stage production the film closes with a long slow pan out that ends in a dizzying aerial view of countless soldiers ' graves , as the voices of the dead sing '' we 'll never tell them '' ( a parody of the jerome kern song '' they did n't believe me '' ) ashton ) 1970 bafta film award , best cinematography ( gerry turpin ) 1970 bafta film award , best costume design ( anthony mendleson ) 1970 bafta film award , best sound track ( don challis and simon kaye ) 1970 bafta film award , best supporting actor ( laurence olivier ) 1970 '' the young men take to the stage and are quickly moved offstage and into military life , and the initially alluring music hall singer is depicted on close-up as a coarse , over-made-up harridan deighton wrote the screenplay for oh ! what a lovely war and the opening title sequence was created by len deighton 's lifelong friend raymond hawkey , the designer responsible for many of deighton 's book covers in the 1960s an unnamed photographer takes a picture of europe 's rulers – after handing two red poppies to the archduke ferdinand and his wife , the duchess of hohenberg , he takes their picture , '' assassinating '' them as the flash goes off the protagonists are an archetypal british family of the time , the smiths , who are shown entering brighton 's west pier , with general haig selling tickets – the film later follows the young smith men through their experiences in the trenches 