shortly afterward bart began composing songs for unity theatre productions , contributing material ( including the title song ) to its 1953 revue turn it up , and songs for its 1953 pantomime , an agitprop version of cinderella bart 's pop output in this period includes the hits '' living doll '' ( written for cliff richard ) and '' rock with the cavemen '' , '' handful of songs '' , '' butterfingers '' and '' little white bull '' ( all for tommy steele ) his other hits include '' do you mind ? '' ( recorded by both anthony newley and andy williams ) , '' big time '' ( a 1961 cover by jack jones of his fings ai n't wot they used t'be show tune ) , '' easy going me '' ( adam faith ) , and '' always you and me '' ( with russ conway ) twenty-seven years after it became a number one hit for cliff richard , '' living doll '' was re-recorded by the young ones and richard for comic relief , and spent another three weeks at number one following that , fings ai n't wot they used t'be produced by joan littlewood 's theatre workshop , was noted for encouraging the use of authentic cockney accents on the london stage and bringing an end to censorship of british theatre it is estimated that around this time bart was earning 16 pounds a minute from oliver ! bart 's next two musicals , blitz ! ( 1962 ) ( from which came the song '' far away '' , a hit for shirley bassey ) and maggie may ( 1964 ) had successful and respectable west end runs ( blitz ! , at the time london 's most expensive musical ever , had a run of 568 performances ) , but twang ! ! ( 1965 ) , a musical based on the robin hood legend , was a flop and la strada ( 1969 ) , which opened on broadway after the removal of most of bart 's songs , closed after only one performance bart used his personal finances to try to rescue his last two productions , selling his past and future rights to his work , including oliver ! which he sold to the entertainer max bygraves for £350 ( bygraves later sold them on for £250,000 ) to realise capital to finance the shows ; bart later estimated that this action lost him over £1 million bart continued writing songs and themes for films , but his only real success in his later years was '' happy endings '' , a song he wrote for a 1989 abbey ( bank ) advertising campaign , which featured bart playing the piano and singing to children in 1987 , encouraged by long-time friend barry humphries , he travelled to australia to attend the opening of a new production of blitz ! , which was then revived in london 's west end in 1990 by the national youth theatre of great britain to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the london blitz a workshop of a musical based on bart 's life and using his songs , it 's a fine life , was staged in 2006 at the queen 's theatre , hornchurch a later version titled more ! was presented in concert at theatre royal stratford east in 2015 featuring neil mcdermott as bart , jessica hynes as joan littlewood and sonny jay as charlene , with an appearance by 1960s pop-star grazina frame , who was an original cast member in bart 's blitz ! lock up your daughters ( 1959 ) – lyrics fings ai n't wot they used t'be ( 1959 ) – music , lyrics oliver ! ( 1960 ) – music , lyrics , book oliver ! was also produced on broadway in 1963 , winning a tony award for best original score and receiving nominations for best musical and best author of a musical blitz ! ( 1962 ) – music , lyrics , book maggie may ( 1964 ) – music , lyrics twang ! ! ( 1965 ) – music , lyrics la strada ( 1969 ) – co-composer , co-lyricist 